hey everyone I'm John from Oban work
labs today talking about sending
receiving and validating or finding file
coin on the network and also while I was
making this talk I realized it's
actually a good introduction to just
working with remote file with a remote
file coin note so if you're interested
in building just any application on top
of file coin I think this should be
should be a good a nice entry point so
yeah just to talk about the agenda first
we're just gonna send and file coin from
one wall to another and just construct a
transaction and go through that whole
flow will then find that transaction in
the network and make sure it's confirmed
and we'll wrap up talking about
different wallet options and a stretch
goal would be to actually like look at
some of the Lotus code so that if you do
decide you want to build a wallet or an
app you don't even really need to rely
on any documentation being super
up-to-date at all times
so to get started it's a little hard to
give a tutorial or like just kind of a
live walkthrough without totally knowing
where everyone's at technically so these
are some of the kind of like blockchain
or network or cryptography terms that I
assume people would be familiar with and
they're actually not file coins specific
at all so if you aren't and you're
interested in learning more about these
you can google them or just search for
them online and they'll be there's a lot
written about them so to dive in the
first thing that is important to
understand because we're gonna use it a
lot today or just in this 20 minutes is
called the the file coin json-rpc now
just to get on the same page about like
vocabularies and naming file coin it you
could think of that as like a list of
specs almost and and Lotus which you see
right next to it in the subtitle is just
like the code implementation of the file
coins back or one of them there there
are hopefully going to be many and and
for those of us who don't know what
json-rpc is it's kind of like first time
I heard it other hmm it's okay it's not
that scary it's it's just really a way
it's sort of an agreed-upon set of rules
for clients which could be like a web
app or another server to communicate
with a remote server in our case it's
going to be a lotus node that's running
somewhere not in my apartment or on my
machine and we do so using JSON which is
just like a type of data structure or
notation of data so yeah and also
throughout this talk like I do simplify
some things intentionally just so that
for people who aren't as familiar it
might be easier to kind of understand
and after you know during questions if
people want to you know call me out on
some nuanced description please let's
let's do it
so yeah let's go a little bit deeper
into lotuses json-rpc
so this is a simple version of a single
Lotus JSON RPC method called wallet
balance and if you couldn't guess you
would call the Lotus json-rpc Wallet
balance method passing it an address to
get that addresses balance in file coin
and so if you look at the bottom left
this is what a request to Lotus looks
like and if you look on the right this
is what Lotus sends us back and you'll
see like some of these fields are bolded
these are the things to pay attention to
throughout the rest of like the slide
show so I actually I'm just gonna like
take out the JSON RPC and the ID those
are things that are important but not
super important for this talk
and so basically
throughout the talk I'm just gonna go
through the steps to sending a file coin
message and finding it in the network
via the RPC I'm gonna do that in slides
first just so people are familiar with
the steps and then we can do it live in
a demo that yeah so this is yet you'll
see stuff that looks like this
throughout the slideshow and hopefully
it shouldn't be too scary last thing is
you'll see here next to wallet balance
like this is what the request should
include as a parameter to Lotus so
you'll see here on the bottom left I the
method that I'm calling is the wallet
balance and the parameter that I'm
passing it in this case it's just one is
the address that I care about and then
Lotus does some thing with that request
it you know fetches the bounce and it
sends it back to me it's a really big
balance okay
let's talk about a message a file coin
message is just like in aetherium
transaction maybe there are some small
differences but I don't even really know
them
so if you look on the left you'll see
what a message looks like in JSON which
is how we send all of these all the
information to Lotus and how we get it
all back from Lotus and if you look on
the right you could see all of the
fields defined one thing to note is that
I sometimes use three dots like in the
address is here to truncate things to
make them a little easier to read and
the second thing is that every value
based parameter in here which is the
value the gas price and the gas limit
are denominated in something called auto
file which I might be mispronouncing but
that is kind of like way to ether it's
just a very small denomination of file
coin I'm so that makes it easier for us
to work with small amounts without
looking at decimals the steps okay so
hang on simple water
okay so the first thing we need to do is
get this thing called a nonce which is
like a unique number associated with
this transaction we take the nonce and
we form the message and that message
includes how much we want to send who we
want to send it to and how much we are
kind of like willing to pay for that
transaction and how fast we wanted to
get processed in the network we have to
sign the message somehow with the signed
message we can send that to the network
then we should wait for that message to
confirm and then we can go ahead and
fetch it so if that's good basically I'm
just gonna run through these six steps
in the slides talk about them briefly
and then we'll do it together in like a
live demo so you could see it all work
cool the nonce so you see the rest of
these slides look a lot like that wallet
balance slide like I have I put the JSON
RPC method in blue and then you'll see
the request on the left the response
back from Lotus on the right and yeah
and then that's yeah that's pretty much
what we're gonna look at so here you can
see I can get the nonce associated with
an address again a nonce is just a
unique number associated with a with an
address and a transaction and normally
these are like sequentially ordered so
your first transaction might have nonce
one and your second might have nonce to
this example the nonce would be six so
when we construct the message we take
oops we take that nonce and we've just
plug it in and here I'm sending what is
this a million ten million ten million
Auto file at a gas price of one I'm
willing to pay up to a thousand
- units or Auto files for this
transaction and the method and the
parameters for just sending file coin is
ROA zero and emptiness for params and
that's it and so to answer the first
kind of part of this is how do I receive
file coin well you just plug that into
the to field in a message as long as
your address is the to field you will
receive whatever is plugged in to the
value
so the next step after you have the
message that you want to send is to sign
it and you have to sign it using the
from addresses private key and this part
of the presentation was a little harder
for me to decide what to do because
there's many ways that you can sign a
message and pretty much any wallet can
sign a message like you could sign a
message with a ledger the second icon is
like from Lotus and so Lotus has a
wallet in it so your file coin node that
you're running has a wallet this icon in
the middle is called glyph we have our
we kind of have our own wallets that are
built on ledger and Zond acts on the
right has signing off so these are just
different possibilities of how we could
sign a message in this demo that I will
show you I'm gonna use the remote nodes
wallet just because it's easy and it's
consistent to use the JSON RPC for all
of our calls and and there's a wallet
sign message JSON RPC method now it in
reality it probably wouldn't make sense
for anyone using like a remote dedicated
node to sign messages because that node
would then need your private keys and
then that's kind of insecure so yeah I
don't know if this would actually be the
way that you would sign a message but
regardless it's the same idea we the
thing that we need is on the right we
need to sign the message so that we can
send that signed message to the network
to get processed confirmed and then you
know the file coin is sent so here on
the Left we pass an address and we pass
the message that we constructed it in
the last step as parameters except I
realized I screwed these up I can just
kind of change this on the fly here I
think it was like this sorry about that
and on the right I just truncated the
message because it's exactly the same as
it is on the left but it also comes back
with a signature and this is how the
network can validate that I was the one
who actually authorized this transaction
or a message so we take the sign message
which includes both the message and the
signature and we call em pool push
the sign message so you see that was the
thing that I generated in the last step
and we get a CID which is like them I
mean everyone's been hearing that today
but you in this case you can think of it
as like the message ID and now your
message is in the pending message pool
and it's waiting to be processed by a
miner which is cool so the next call
that we can make so so just to recap we
just did steps one through four and
after we like after you do those you've
sent a message so you've sent file coin
step 5
there's a really so there's actually a
few ways to to do five and six I'm gonna
show you the ones that we're using right
now in the wallet that we made but at
the end I'll also talk about some other
other ways that you could do this as
well okay where were we so there's a
really handy JSON RPC method for waiting
for a message to confirm it takes a CID
so you just pass that as a parameter and
this is a simplified response but once
the message confirms you'll see that we
get a receipt which has an exit code
which tells us to this exit without
errors zero is actually a good sign that
means no errors it tells us what the fee
we actually paid from the transaction
was and then the tip set tip set is is
like a group of blocks bunched together
and that tells us where our message what
can can be found I think or some
information that will help us
potentially find that message in the
future and lastly once we get that
response which we know once we got it
the message is confirmed we can go ahead
and find the message using chain get
message and passing the cid and as you'd
expect this isn't even simplified sorry
for these typos the message you get back
is the exact one that we composed in
step nine nine I mean slide nine step
three yeah
you get a point okay now let's try and
do this lot I'm gonna switch screens
well there's a lot of chat I hope I
didn't screw something up everyone can
come you know
okay all right cool thanks for the
encouragement okay so I'm gonna use a
tool that is handy called
postman and for those of you who aren't
familiar postman just allows me to
actually execute those request response
cycles that we saw in
the slides so it's just it's a really
easy GUI for making these requests and I
generated a new address on my node like
I have up my node has this address in
its wallet it owns the private keys of
that address and and that address if we
look up that you can see you can see
we've my postman still yeah we can see
your Paramus Lee we could just see the
left hand yeah are okay cool now you
know you got everything yep
all right all right make this a little
bigger so yeah this this is um basically
the exact call that we saw in the
example wallet balance with this address
that my node owns the private keys of
and I'm just I have a have a node that
is remote and and that's what it's
handling these JSON RPC calls so if I
send this request I get back a lot of
auto file here and that's how much I can
spend potentially on on a transaction so
if we just go through the steps I have
them here first thing we need to do is
get the notes associated with my address
so if I send this request I get back
zero easy enough
now remember wallet signed message this
is this is a step that if you were
implementing your own wallet or your own
file coin sending kind of tooling you
probably you might not use this method
because this requires a remote node or
whatever node that you're using that's
handling this request to have the
private key of this address so to look
at this mess of this message I'm sending
it with a method of zero empty params a
gas price and the gas limit some value
the nonce that I got from the last step
from my address that I plugged in that's
the first parameter to the recipient and
when I send it I get back
this sign message let's make this look a
little prettier
so remember assigned a message is both
the message and the signature so I'm
going to copy that
and I'm gonna put that into this EM pool
push
method which just takes a signed method
message and hopefully when I send this
we should get back a CID nice and this
is the identifier for the message that I
just sent on the Falcone Network and so
if I take that CID and I plug it into
state wait message you will notice it
won't come back right away because that
message is confirming and I'm going to
use this as an opportunity now switch
back to the slides for a moment so we
don't just sit here and waste time and
talk about other strategies to Vout
validate a transaction so one thing you
could do is you could use the JSON RPC
to crawl the chain yourself and find the
messages that are relevant to you that
you know takes some some more technical
prowess and the thing you might do is
like start at the head and look at the
blocks in the head and then look at
their parents and look at their parents
and inspect all the messages and all
those blocks and any addresses that show
up that are relevant to you you can then
capture or cache them or whatever you
really want to do with them the other
thing you could do is you could leverage
a block Explorer back-end API like file
Scouter file scan if they would let you
and lastly you could use there's a JSON
RPC method called stateless messages
which kind of like does the same things
it's finding all of the messages
associated with an address passing like
a - and a from Paramus entually but it's
it's not super performant yet so just to
keep that in mind anyways let me go back
to post name okay so and here it is so
it returned this message which has a
zero exit code that's
get it I can my heart rate will like
slow down now the gas used that's the
fee that I just paid and if I look at
like my wallet bounced again we would
hope that this is much different and it
is so this is sort of like what I sent I
think - the fee or maybe there's some
other numbers in there but I'm yet and
lastly I can take the CID of my message
and I can chain get message and this
should be the message that I sent so it
was from me to this address
and we can just double check that it
looks right to me
and yeah that blood that that was
relatively smooth okay
last topic here wallets so we kind of we
kind of already talked about this a
little bit form a net launch these are
the the main wallet options that will be
available that I know of maybe there
will be more in the future or some that
I don't know about but the so glyph this
this glyph wallet that we made it works
with both the ledger and the zond axe
signing library so it's it's kind of
like a nice web interface for for
sending file coin and seeing your
transaction history one thing to to just
mention is that if you're planning on
accepting a lot of file coin I'd highly
recommend using a hardware wallet but if
you want to just put like at which you
can use with with glyph as well but if
you are just happy to experiment with
you know small amounts then you can use
the glyph wallet to make your own seed
phrase and the browser kind of the the
meta mask like experience there and
lastly just a note on open work labs I
like to give kind of the intro at the
end because why would you care at the
beginning we're just a really small team
working to try and improve the way
people share organize and
five their work that's how we got into
file coin-like we're trying to figure
out good ways to persist work on file
coins so that we don't lose it and help
things like this presentation of this
stomach are such awesome collaboration
and learning opportunities especially
especially for me that I I almost feel
like it should be a continuous thing
where we're all sharing our work
together we're all up to date like I'm
learning so much like new things and it
shouldn't have to wait over a zoom chat
I don't think to to get out to the
community and for people to work with
each other and not not do anything
overly redundant that is it thank you
thanks so much for letting me letting me
speak about this it's been awesome to
work on it and I can finally like vent
to all of you about this process so yeah
questions awesome thank you so much
Jonathan this is great thank that the
the demo gods were we're happy demo gods
are usually not happy with me well done
offerings uh wait wait wait wait I have
one more thing that I want to show that
I want to show yeah yeah more thing one
more thing done Anna okay one thing that
happens to me all the time which is to
no one's fault is that it's really hard
to keep up with documentation and so now
I think if you were watching this and
paying attention you should be able to
look at this file I'll put it in the
chat this is the Lotus json-rpc where's
the OH
that says line 57 but that line 57 is
not important what basically what is
important is just like how close the
slides that I just presented actually
like mirror the real source code and so
if you're interested in building apps
yes there will be a little bit of
documentation that you need to get
started but once you're there you can
look through all of these calls and you
can and you can now like decipher what
are the arguments that you need to pass
in order to make this happen using
something like postman or curl and
you'll see what you're gonna what you're
gonna get back so if we just look at
like wallet balance like the one that I
that I showed you it looks really
similar stretch screen why don't you
stretch oh there we go
okay wallet balance here so it looks
very similar the only thing that you
might notice is that there's this
context and if you're dealing with the
json-rpc
you can just completely ignore that it's
not a parameter that you need to pass
everything after context is something
that the json-rpc
is expecting from you so the context is
totally internal to Lotus right now so
now you have the knowledge to use the
Lotus RPC and build some cool apps yeah
that was that was the last thing I'm
glad glad I got to it
awesome looks like we have a question in
the chat um what's the incentive to
miners it's a very broad question right
yeah I don't think I would be the best
like I could give a stab but I'd urge
you to like maybe read the white paper
the spec for that because that will do a
much better job of answering that
question than I can but I think there's
a lot of incentive that some are similar
to other block chains and yeah yeah I'd
look at the spec sounds good question
from Joel on the similarities and
differences from the etherium json-rpc
Club but they're available yeah you know
I never got too deep into the etherium
json-rpc
just the error codes so the one
difference that I know of is that the
the Lotus json-rpc has like friendlier
errors touch that's all like I'm sorry
that's really not that helpful but I
presumably like json-rpc is exactly the
same right like that has nothing to do
with with any yeah but but it's really
just gonna be the parameters or the
arguments oh I'm getting the chats
oh thanks Derek that's that's so nice
yeah I'm I'm happy I'm happy with how it
went down one which tune do you
recommend for pending services yeah
that's it that's a good question so this
is this is something that I've put some
thought into and I also don't really
know how the current pending
infrastructures are accepting payments
now like what technologies they're
already using presumably like creating
associations between addresses or groups
of addresses and like web to identifiers
or decentralized identifiers for that
matter would be helpful and might be
something that's missing right now so
that like the thing that this
presentation doesn't talk about is well
yeah I just found the message that this
user said
they sent but like who is that user and
how do I relate in a secure way that
doesn't really violate privacy or other
things like how do I make that
association in the back in the back end
mostly yeah right you need yeah I don't
know that's it's a good question and and
also I think accepting like accepting
file coin should so like if you're
excited
other some services accept other kryptos
and I wonder I wonder how they do that
or if there are services out there that
are that file coin could just integrate
easily into like change Li for example I
think that there's been some talk about
working working in integration there so
yeah sorry I don't have a better better
answer striping eath yeah cool surprised
you can call the Lotus APs
is there any off yes yeah okay so there
is yeah there's a big catch here which
is that the Lotus node that's running in
the background has it has a token that
when you send the token along with your
JSON RPC request Lotus will make sure
that you are the right you you have the
token and you have the rights to call
these methods so the remote node that
that we have deployed this one I'm using
is like kind of public and if you're
here basically we have a proxy server
that just injects the tokens into into
requests so that it's really easy for
anyone to use and we also yeah so one of
the things that we worked on the past
few months was like an open source
kubernetes and sort of like docker
tooling lotus node cluster management
and so this is all kind of wrapped in
there and and there's some nice security
handling with tools like sto that make
this stuff easier
yeah jdw teaser access - yeah yeah so a
JWT right so the the Lotus node you can
generate there's some like semi-flexible
kind of role based authentication going
on with Lotus so you there different
tokens that represent different
permissions like read write sign admin I
think are the four and and so there's
different JW teas that can fit each of
those so if I have a read token I can do
I can make requests to basically like
chain exploration JSON RPC handlers
where if I have like a sign token then I
can do the wallet sign message method
but a read token I wouldn't be able to
call the wallet sign message and that
the token that is being injected is I'm
pretty sure all this all access right
now so no just just ignoring all
security for the test mat at the moment
but that yeah it's easy to kind of kind
of change that around who signs the
tokens
yeah the node the node generates the
tokens so this is all built into Lotus
and the others come on fire how much
time do we have we have a 15-minute
break starting in five minutes so you
got yeah another five minutes for
questions come on
like I'm not getting anything hard
growling no it was it was either too
hard
I like the questions oh it's um I guess
I can show you I mean if there's really
no questions like can you hear my dog my
dog barking to say show you her I could
show you the glyph wallet briefly yes
let's do that
let's do that sneak peeks sneak peeks
yes okay where's mine
is okay so I'm gonna give I'm gonna give
you all little Easter egg thing the
wallet is not like supposed to be
accessible to anyone but if you just go
to this URL you can get there
oh wait launch application you you all
can still see me and the screen we can
see a screen but it's and oh yeah now we
can see it nice okay so which options
should I do
maybe maybe I'll use a ledger and
unlocking my ledger so props to Kazan
dax who built the ledger app and here is
all alleged oh my swords crown that's
right hang on
sorry switch share alright buncher
connected oh wait oh wait I shouldn't
use a letter I'm just like in the middle
of fixing a bug I'm so sorry
let me switch back live demo God smiled
on you too much so sorry demo gods
alright let me find out see you phrase
with some with some five point on it
give me two seconds okay got you
okay importing seed phrase don't don't
do this John alright okay so here is the
current state of the glyph wallet and
this is a wallet that I use for a lot of
testing if you couldn't tell so it just
kind of is like any basic wallet really
you can send file coin to different
addresses so let me create a second
account and these yeah here let me copy
this account I'll switch back to my
other one
sannan-san file coin I can I can like
customize the gas fees and stuff but I'm
not going to do that at the moment here
to complete I'm going to confirm and
voila now my transaction is pending and
maybe if it goes fast enough we can find
it on files go but not yet oh all right
maybe we can find some other ones on
file scale first
see if yeah that worked so yeah this is
the the glyph wallet at the moment it's
it does its job and yeah I mean it does
anyone want to see anything specific
here like how much time oh we got a
minute any any more questions on on this
it's beautiful
thanks yeah you can tell from the slides
I am definitely not the designer yeah
Alex Alex did a great job that that zoom
elevator music would be great right
about now at the pending transaction or
some jeopardy music would be would be
problem potentially
well we're officially a break time so
perfect more questions for you they can
stick them in the chat during during
this next break